InfluxQL GROUP BY with new sample data (#4954)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/group-by.md

---
title: GROUP BY clause
description: >

>   Use the `GROUP BY` clause ti group data by one or more specified

Author: ```suggestion
  Use the `GROUP BY` clause to group data by one or more specified
```

  [tags](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/glossary/#tag) or into specified time intervals.
menu:
  influxdb_cloud_dedicated:
    name: GROUP BY clause
    identifier: influxql-group-by
    parent: influxql-reference
weight: 203
list_code_example: |
  ```sql
  SELECT_clause FROM_clause [WHERE_clause] GROUP BY group_expression[, ..., group_expression_n]
  ```
---

> Use the `GROUP BY` clause ti group data by one or more specified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `GROUP BY` clause to group data by one or more specified
```

  - [Fill with previous if no previous value exists](#fill-with-previous-if-no-previous-value-exists)
  - [Fill with linear interpolation if there are not two values to interpolate between](#fill-with-linear-interpolation-if-there-are-not-two-values-to-interpolate-between)

## Syntax

```sql
SELECT_clause FROM_clause [WHERE_clause] GROUP BY group_expression[, ..., group_expression_n]
```

- **group_expression**: Expression to identify tags or time intervals to group by.
  Can be a [tag key](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/glossary/#tag-key),
  constant, [regular expression](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/regular-expressions/),
  wildcard (`*`), or [function](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/functions/).

#### GROUP BY clause behaviors

- `GROUP BY tag_key` - Groups data by a specific tag
- `GROUP BY tag_key1, tag_key2` - Groups data by more than one tag
- `GROUP BY *` - Groups data by all [tags](/influxdb/v2.7/reference/glossary/#tag)
- `GROUP BY /regex/` - Groups data by tag keys that match the regular expression
- `GROUP BY time()` - Groups data into time intervals (windows)

{{% note %}}

> If the query includes a `WHERE` clause, the `GROUP BY` clause must appear after
> the `WHERE` clause.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a query includes `WHERE` and `GROUP BY`, the `GROUP BY` clause must appear after
the `WHERE` clause.
```

{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 |         mean_price |
| :------------------- | -----------------: |
| 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z | 28054.160950480004 |

{{% /expand %}}

{{% expand "Group data by tag keys that match a regular expression" %}}

```sql
SELECT MEAN(*) FROM bitcoin GROUP BY /^[cd]/
```

{{% influxql/table-meta %}}
name: bitcoin  
tags: code=EUR, crypto=bitcoin, description=Euro
{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 |         mean_price |
| :------------------- | -----------------: |
| 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z | 27328.848667840004 |

{{% influxql/table-meta %}}
name: bitcoin  
tags: code=GBP, crypto=bitcoin, description=British Pound Sterling
{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 |         mean_price |
| :------------------- | -----------------: |
| 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z | 23441.832453919982 |

{{% influxql/table-meta %}}
name: bitcoin  
tags: code=USD, crypto=bitcoin, description=United States Dollar
{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 |         mean_price |
| :------------------- | -----------------: |
| 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z | 28054.160950480004 |

{{% /expand %}}

{{< /expand-wrapper >}}

## GROUP BY time

> `GROUP BY time()` groups data by into specified time intervals, also known as "windows,"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GROUP BY time()` groups data by into specified time intervals, also known as "windows",
```

and applies the [aggregate](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/functions/aggregates/)
and [selector](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/functions/selectors/)
functions in the `SELECT` clause to each interval.
Use the [`time()` function](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/functions/date-time/#time)
to specify the time interval to group by.

```sql
SELECT_clause FROM_clause WHERE <time_range> GROUP BY time(time_interval[, offset])[, group_expression (...)] [fill(behavior)]
```

`GROUP BY time()` intervals use preset round-number time boundaries that
are independent of time conditions in the [`WHERE` clause](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/where/).
**Output data uses window start boundaries as the aggregate timestamps.**

> Use the `offset` argument of the `time()` to shift time boundaries forward or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `offset` argument of the `time()` function to shift time boundaries forward or
```

name: bitcoin
{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 | mean       |
| -------------------- | ---------- |
| 2023-05-01T00:00:00Z | 29319.9092 |
| 2023-05-01T00:30:00Z | 29307.4416 |
| 2023-05-01T01:00:00Z | 29285.3651 |
| 2023-05-01T01:30:00Z | 29263.2886 |

{{% /expand %}}

{{% expand "Group and aggregate query results into 30 minute intervals and fill gaps with previous values" %}}

```sql
SELECT
  MEAN(price)
FROM bitcoin
WHERE
  code = 'USD'
  AND time >= '2023-05-01T00:00:00Z'
  AND time < '2023-05-01T02:00:00Z'
GROUP BY
  time(30m)
  fill(previous)
```

{{% influxql/table-meta %}} 
name: bitcoin
{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 | mean       |
| -------------------- | ---------- |
| 2023-05-01T00:00:00Z | 29319.9092 |
| 2023-05-01T00:30:00Z | 29307.4416 |
| 2023-05-01T01:00:00Z | 29307.4416 |
| 2023-05-01T01:30:00Z | 29263.2886 |

{{% /expand %}}

{{< /expand-wrapper >}}

## Notable behaviors of the GROUP BY clause

### Cannot group by fields

InfluxQL does not support grouping data by **fields**.

### Tag order does not matter

The order that tags are listed in the `GROUP BY` clause does not affect how
data is grouped.

> ### Grouping by tag and no time range return unexpected timestamps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Grouping by tag and no time range returns unexpected timestamps
```

When grouping by tags and no time range is specified in the
[`WHERE` clause](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/where/), results

> use the [Unix epoch]() as the default timestamp for the aggregate timestamp.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use the [Unix epoch](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/glossary/#unix-epoch) as the default timestamp for the aggregate timestamp.
```

For example:

```sql
SELECT mean(temp) FROM home GROUP BY room
```

{{% influxql/table-meta %}}
name: home  
tags: room=Kitchen
{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 |               mean |
| :------------------- | -----------------: |
| 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z | 22.623076923076926 |

{{% influxql/table-meta %}}
name: home  
tags: room=Living Room
{{% /influxql/table-meta %}}

| time                 |              mean |
| :------------------- | ----------------: |
| 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z | 22.16923076923077 |

### Data grouped by time may return unexpected timestamps

Because `GROUP BY time()` intervals use preset round-number time boundaries that

> are independent of time conditions in the [`WHERE` clause](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/where/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are independent of time conditions in the [`WHERE` clause](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/influxql/where/),
```

> results may include timestamps outside of the quried time range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
results may include timestamps outside of the queried time range.
```

> Results represent only data with timestamps the specified time range, but

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Results represent only data with timestamps in the specified time range, but
```

> output timestamps are determined by by the preset time boundaries.
> 
> For example, if you group data into 1 hour intervals, but the time range defined
> in the `WHERE` clause covers only part of a window:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
output timestamps are determined by by the preset time boundaries.

The following example groups data by 1-hour intervals, but the time range defined
in the `WHERE` clause covers only part of a window:
```
